The Project Gutenberg eBook of Fairy Tales Told in the Bush, by Sister
Agnes

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Fairy Tales Told in the Bush

Author: Sister Agnes

Release Date: January 16, 2021 [eBook #64310]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from scans of
             public domain works at The National Library of Australia.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FAIRY TALES TOLD IN THE BUSH ***





FAIRY TALES TOLD IN THE BUSH

[Illustration: “EACH WALL WAS COVERED WITH SHELVES, AND EACH SHELF WAS
FULL OF BOOKS.”]




                               FAIRY TALES
                            TOLD IN THE BUSH

                                   By
                              SISTER AGNES

                             [Illustration]

                          LONDON: ELLIOT STOCK
                        62, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.




PREFACE


_Of these Fairy Tales told to children in the Australian bush_, “The
Magic Gun” and “The Underground River,” are original, but the others have
been brought from the old country, not in book form, but in the memory of
a lover of fairies and children.

“The Origin of the Yarra Yarra” was told to the writer by old King Barak,
the last King of the Yarra tribe, a few days before his death.

These tales, as told here, charmed the writer in the “Sixties” when
Melbourne was a place of bush and swamp. They now charm little slum
children in the so-called “slum parts” of the city of Melbourne, “The
Palace of Truth” and “The Magic Gun” being always asked for when stories
are to be told.




CONTENTS


                                                                      PAGE

    THE LITTLE MAN IN BROWN, OR THE BOY WHO LIED                         3

    THE MAGIC GUN                                                       21

    THE UNDERGROUND RIVER                                               31

    THE ORIGIN OF THE YARRA YARRA (EVER-FLOWING)                        51

    FORGET-ME-NOT                                                       61

    THE PALACE OF TRUTH                                                 75




ILLUSTRATIONS


                                                                      PAGE

    Each wall was covered with shelves, and each shelf was
       full of books                                         _Frontispiece_

    The boy grew bold and began to read                                  2

    The sale of the bull                                                11

    Barak telling the story of the Magic Gun                            20

    Eating the berries                                                  30

    The fish gave a flap, a jump, and reached the water                 45

    Barak snatched the honeycomb away, and put it in his mouth          50

    Finding the footprint of the “Shining One”                          56

    The Man in the Moon                                                 60

    Marie finding the man                                               67

    Marie going to the Moon                                             69

    They came in sight of an enormous tree, upon which grew golden
       apples                                                           74

    The toys running away                                               82




THE LITTLE MAN IN BROWN, OR THE BOY WHO LIED.

[Illustration: “THE BOY GREW BOLD AND BEGAN TO READ.”]

[Illustration: THE LITTLE MAN IN BROWN, OR THE BOY WHO LIED.]


Long, long ago in the days when there were no schools, there lived a man
and his wife and their only child. He was a bright, clever boy, and his
parents were very ambitious for their dear boy, and wished him to become
a great and renowned man. They saw that the children who could not read
or write, but who just played all day long, had to go to work while still
very young, and were generally so stupid that they could never earn
much money; so they determined to let their boy have an education, and
be able, later on, to have an easier life than they themselves had ever
enjoyed. They worked early and late and saved every penny, even when
their boy was still a baby, and by the time he was old enough to learn,
they had saved enough money to pay a learned man who lived in the town to
teach the boy. Boy he was always called, and I am very glad there is no
other name for him, because of his bad ending.

When Boy was fourteen years old, he knew so much about books that there
was not a single book in the learned man’s library that he had not read.
Oh, he was very clever and knowing, and he told his mother and father
that he now knew enough to go and earn a good living. “In the morning,”
said he, “I shall set out to make a fortune.”

Long before daybreak, the boy set out on his journey, carrying a bundle
done up in a big red handkerchief. It contained a clean shirt, a pair of
socks, a loaf of new bread, and a bottle of milk. His parents were very
sad when he went away, but they knew he would never have any chance to
become great and famous in the town where every one knew him as “the boy.”

Away trudged the boy, up hill and down dale, until at last, just before
sunrise, he came to a hill where, as he imagined, cock had never crowed
and man had never walked before. Tired and hungry, he sat down to eat his
loaf and drink his milk, and, just as he had finished, a little old man
dressed all in brown suddenly appeared before him. The boy rubbed his
eyes to make sure he was not dreaming, for a minute before he had been
alone; now, here was this funny little man looking at him. The little
man wore knee-breeches and silk stockings, a cut-away coat, and a cocked
hat, all of brown, and the funny thing was that the colour of his clothes
matched the colour of his eyes and hair.

“Well, my boy,” said the old man, “you look surprised to see me.”

“Yes, sir, I am; I thought no one lived here.”

“Can’t people be in a place without living there? You yourself are here
at present, but I suppose you don’t live here.”

“No, sir; I am going out into the world to make my fortune.”

“Just the boy I want. I am looking for a boy who will promise to do a
little work for me for six months, and for that little work he is to get
£50. Will you come and do it?”

“That I will,” cried the boy, jumping up gladly.

“Stay, though, there is one question I must ask first,” said the little
old man. “Can you read or write?”

“Yes,” answered the boy proudly, “I can read anything in my tutor’s
library.”

“Ah! then you won’t do for me, and I must go on my way in search of a boy
capable of doing what I want, but unable to read or write.”

“Why do you want——” began the boy; but he was speaking to space, the
little old man in brown had disappeared. Suddenly the boy formed a
resolution. He would go home again, make himself look quite different,
and come to-morrow morning to this same place, and then, if the little
old man came—— Well, the boy had been taught to read and write, but he
had not been taught to be truthful or honest. His parents thought _that_
did not help people to get rich or famous.

Back he went to his home, and when he told his mother what he intended to
do, she was quite pleased. “See,” she said to her husband, “how clever
the boy is; this is what book-learning has done. No one else would think
of such a clever trick.”

Next morning, at sunrise, there was a boy again sitting on the top of
that distant hill, where the boy had breakfasted the day before. Indeed
it was “_the_ Boy,” although he looked quite different. He had dyed his
fair hair and his eyebrows, making them look almost black, and he had
rubbed the juice of a certain bark on his skin to make him seem dark.
There he sat, a dark foreign-looking boy, eating his breakfast and
impatiently waiting for the little old man to come again. He had not
long to wait. How he came the boy never knew, but he suddenly knew he was
not alone, and looking up saw the old man looking at him.

“Ah, a fair boy yesterday, and a dark one to-day. I hope there is more
luck for me with the dark than there was with the fair. What are you
doing here, boy?”

“I’m looking for work, sir,” answered the boy, trying not to show how
delighted he felt.

“Good,” said the old man, “and I’m looking for a boy who wants work.”

“Will you engage me, sir?”

“Softly, softly, there are one or two things to speak about first. Can
you read and write?”

“No, sir,” answered the boy, not even turning a shade paler under his
dye, for you see he had never been taught to be truthful or honourable.

“Good again; then if £50 a year will suit you, you can come at once.”

Of course the boy said “Yes” to that, and the old man led him to a house
just over the next hill, a pretty house standing in a big natural garden.

“Come in,” said the old man, unlocking the door, “come in and I’ll show
you what you must do to earn your money.”

The boy was astonished to find that the house was really only one big
room; each wall was covered with shelves from the ceiling to the floor,
and each shelf was full of books. The boy was then told that he would be
quite alone in the house, as his master meant to travel for six months.
Usually he lived there by himself, but he had studied so much that his
brain was tired, and he knew that if he wished to get really well and
strong again, he must travel away, and not look at a book for six months.
So he had hired the boy just to dust his beloved books in his lonely
house, and, as it was so far away from people, he had to give a big sum
of money, as wages, to get any one to stay there alone.

The boy stood looking around in astonishment. “Where am I to sleep?” he
asked.

“Why, on that couch, of course,” said the old man; “you’ll find plenty of
blankets under it.”

“And what am I to eat?”

“Ah! ah! ah!” laughed the old man, “trust a boy to make provision
for _that_. There is, my boy, a wonderful secret connected with
this house. When a certain magic word is pronounced, a table
is lowered by invisible hands, and on the table you will find
everything you wish to eat and drink. Now say it after me,
‘Corremurreplatyemurrepleuemurretimemurrejcherymurrepljeskuskiski.’”

Slowly the boy repeated the strange word after the old man, and, as he
finished, there descended a table even as he had been told. On the table
was a baked fowl, a duck, vegetables, puddings, tarts, cakes, sweets, and
two or three kinds of drinks. Oh, these things were good! The boy soon
knew that, and when he had eaten and drunk as much as he could, the man
said he must get away as soon as possible, as he felt his brain could not
stand the strain of even the backs of the books much longer.

“I know you can’t read and write, boy,” said the old man, “and yet I want
you to promise me you won’t read a single word in these books, nor even
open them.”

The boy promised readily enough, and then the old man went off. At first
the boy worked at the dusting, never daring to open one of the books in
case the old man should suddenly appear as he had done on the hill-top;
but, as day after day passed, and there was no sign of him, he grew bold
and began to read. What he read was very, very strange, stranger than
anything he had ever heard of. Soon indeed he knew that his master must
be the cleverest man in the world, for he learned from his books how to
turn himself into any animal, and then to change back again into himself.
How he longed to try it, but he dare not, because one condition was,
that a person turning into an animal found a leather halter round his
neck, and only a human being could undo it, so that he might turn back
again to what he had been before.

Long before the six months were over, the boy was longing to go and try
this wonderful unheard-of thing, but he dared not go until the old man
came back, or he not only would have had to go penniless, but the old man
might suspect him, and watch him and his actions.

At last, however, the little old man returned. “Have you kept your
promise?” were his first words. “You have not read the books?” and the
boy vowed and protested that he had not even opened the books. The old
man examined his precious volumes, and, finding them in good order, paid
the £50, and the boy then set out for his home. His father and mother
could hardly believe he had earned so much money in such a short time.

“Easy come, easy go,” is a homely saying, and certainly “Boy’s” £50 went
very easily indeed, and soon it was all spent. “You must go and earn some
more money,” said his mother.

[Illustration: “THE SALE OF THE BULL.”]

“Ah! ah!” laughed Boy, “not I; I’ve learned how to get money without
working, no more working for me. I’ve learned how to turn myself into any
animal I like. The worst of it is, though, if I change into an animal
used by man, like the horse, cows and dogs, a halter will be around my
neck, and I can’t change back again until the halter is taken off. Now,
to-morrow is market day, and all the farmers will be in the town, so I’ll
change myself into a bull, and you can take me to market and sell me, but
remember to take the halter off my neck.”

“Never fear,” said his father, “I’ll remember.”

Early next morning, when Boy’s father went into the yard, there stood
a beautiful black bull which he at once led off to the market. Quite a
commotion was made by the fine bull.

“Come here,” cried the farmer who first saw it, “come here, and look at
this prize bull.”

A crowd gathered around, and soon the farmers had made up their minds to
buy it between them, as no one was rich enough to buy such a costly bull
for himself alone. £1,000, and well worth it, they all declared. So five
of them clubbed together and bought it. One farmer, who had a big strong
stable, was to take care of the fine beast. Together they took the bull
to the stable, saw it safely locked up, and the key put in the farmer’s
pocket.

Next day the five owners brought some friends to see their prize, but,
lo, the bull had disappeared. They looked at the fastenings of the
door—nothing wrong—and there was no other way by which the bull could
have escaped, so they all declared that the farmer had hidden the bull
and meant to sell it secretly. Poor man, he was at once hurried off to
prison. Where was the bull? Why, no sooner had the farmers locked the
door, than the bull changed himself into a fly, and flew through the
keyhole. When the boy’s father reached home, there was his son sitting
by the side of the fire enjoying a meal, while his mother rocked herself
from side to side, laughing at the trick he had played the farmer.

“A thousand pounds! now, if we had another thousand, we would never need
to work again. Change yourself into another animal next market day, and
I’ll sell you again.”

“No,” said the son, “we must wait awhile, there will be a great noise
about the bull that has disappeared.”

And indeed there was a noise about it. Everybody’s tongue clattered
so loudly that even the little old man in brown heard a whisper about
it. “Ah,” thought he, “that boy has played me false. A bull could not
disappear unless some one knew my magic secret. I must keep a watch on
that town, and see if any other valuable animal comes to the market.”

After some time people forgot all about the strange disappearance of the
bull, and, as the boy’s father continuously worried him to work the magic
trick again, he at last consented.

This time it was a beautiful prancing horse that was seen and admired by
the market people. £1,000 was asked for it. The little old man, disguised
in a great cloak and turned-down hat, began to bargain for it, and soon
the father had sold it, and had begun to take the halter off its neck.

“Stop,” cried the little man, “I bought that horse as he stood, the
halter included.”

“No, no, only the horse,” said Boy’s father.

“How could I lead the horse away without a halter? but to stop all
dispute you shall have another £100.” The little old man threw down the
money, jumped on the horse and galloped away.

“I’ve caught you at last,” said he to the horse, “now I mean to kill you;
liar and thief that you are, for such sins you must die.” The little
old man in brown galloped the horse up hills, and down dales and across
rivers, but the horse never seemed even to tire. “Well, as you won’t die
in one way you must in another. I shall have a goad made in such a way
that every time I strike you with it blood will flow.”

At the first blacksmith’s to which he came, he stopped and called aloud
for the smith to come out. Out came the smith, holding a heavy hammer in
his hand, and the little old man in brown gave his directions for the
goad; but the smith was not clever, so the old man had to get down, and
go into the smithy to draw a plan of what he wanted made. The horse was
left in charge of a boy. “Take the halter off my neck.” The boy in charge
was so surprised to hear a horse speak that he obeyed, and the horse at
once scampered off.

“Hey, mister, mister, your horse is running away.” These words brought
the little old man out very quickly; sure enough there was the horse
some distance off, galloping as fast as he could go. The old man changed
himself into a horse and galloped after him. Of course there was no one
to place a halter on him, so there was no halter to take off, and he
could change again as soon as he wished to. The fresh horse soon gained
upon the tired one.

“Dear, dear, this will never do, I must dodge him. I’ll change into a
hare and sneak off into the bushes,” thought the boy; but no sooner had
the boy become a hare than the old man became a greyhound, and began to
get very close to him indeed. “Oh, dear! he is gaining on me, I shall
change into a bird, and fly into the trees;” but no sooner had the boy
become a little bird than the old man became a hawk and got closer still.

“Look!” cried a lady who sat at the window in her room, “look at the hawk
chasing that poor little bird.” Quickly she opened the window, and the
little bird flew in. To her astonishment it changed at once into a ring,
and, lo, there it was on her finger!

A knock was heard at the door. “Come in,” said the lady. In came a little
old man dressed in brown.

“Madam, I have lost a little bird; it was being chased by a hawk; it flew
in here.”

“Yes,” answered the lady; “a strange thing happened; no sooner had it
flown in here than it became a ring on my finger.”

“Madam, I claim my property,” said the little old man, stretching out his
hand for the ring.

She took off the ring sadly, but it slipped from her fingers and rolled
into the passage.

“What shall I do?” thought the boy. “I know, I’ll turn into a great
bundle of straw, and crowd him out of the place.” You see, he was such a
selfish boy he never even thought about the lady who had allowed him to
fly into the room.

The lady was horrified to see the door filled up with straw; but, lo!
the little old man at once turned himself into a donkey, and began to eat
the straw. At every mouthful he of course ate what was really a piece of
the boy, and the boy knew he must soon die at that rate. Hurriedly the
boy changed himself into a mouse, but, alas! there was no mouse-hole for
him to run and hide in, and before he could reach the door, the cat that
belonged to the lady saw him, pounced upon him, and ate him up.

So that was the end of the boy who tried to get rich by stealing and
lying. You might think that the £1,100 the old man had given the father
made him a rich man for life. Not so, the neighbours and he soon spent it
in gambling and drink, and in a short time he was as poor as he had been
before his son began practising his magic tricks.

[Illustration: FINIS]




THE MAGIC GUN

[Illustration: “BARAK TELLING THE STORY OF THE MAGIC GUN.”]

[Illustration: THE MAGIC GUN.]


It was September, the wattle blossom month, and many people were in and
around beautiful Healesville, where the wattle is to be seen at its best.
Old King Barak, the last King of the Yarra tribe, sat outside his hut at
Coranderrk, surrounded by white people.

“You all too greedy,” he grumbled, “you come to see black man, black
man make native fire, black man throw boomerang, black man throw spear;
white man give him black brother pennies, pah, white man greedy, no give
black man baccy, only pennies.” A few of the white people gave the dirty
old chief a silver coin, then they went off to another hut to buy native
baskets, and to see the funny black babies. One small boy stayed behind.

“I am not greedy, Barak; see, I have brought you a shilling.”

Barak greedily snatched the shilling.

“Last time,” said the boy, “you told me the story of the Yarra Yarra, and
you promised to tell me the story of the Magic Gun to-day if I brought
you another shilling. Do be quick and tell me, because the others will
want to go back to the township as soon as they have bought some baskets
and things.”

Charmed by the gift of the shilling, the old man told the small white
boy the story of the Magic Gun in quavering voice, sometimes scarcely
to be heard, for he was very frail; indeed, though little Tom Jones did
not know it, this was the last time he, or any one else, was to hear the
story of the Magic Gun from poor old King Barak of Coranderrk Station.

Tom drew a deep breath as the old man finished his story.

“Let me look at the gun, Barak,” he pleaded.

The old black took him into his hut, and proudly showed him an
old-fashioned gun.

“And that is the gun that Buckly, the white man who was lost and lived
among the blacks, really used?”

“Course it is, didn’t I tell you,” said King Barak.

“And he really used nails instead of bullets?”

“Course he did with this gun, it’s a Magic Gun,” answered the old man.

“And he put his knife into its——”

“Tom, Tom, we are going, come along,” called the voice of authority, so
Tom could not finish his questioning, but had to drive away with the
others.

That night, when the others were fast asleep in bed, Tom dressed himself
very quietly—there was no need to get a candle, for there was a bright
moon by whose light he could see quite well. He hurried, for he meant to
go to Coranderrk Station, two miles away, sneak Barak’s Magic Gun, and
just see for himself what its powers were like.

Fortune favoured Tom. Barak had somehow or other got some beer, although
no one was allowed to sell beer to black men. Barak was in a drunken
sleep and had not locked his door. Tom tiptoed in, took the Magic Gun
from its place on the wall, and went out on his search for game. Tom
walked steadily on until he was some miles from home. By this time the
sun was rising, the whole country was bathed in a golden and purple
light, but Tom had no thoughts for beauty or scenery. The Magic Gun
filled his thoughts. He walked until, from very weariness, he sat down to
rest against a log; not a thing had he seen upon which to try the Magic
Gun, which had to be primed with nails instead of powder.

He enjoyed the bread and butter he had brought with him, and after he
had finished it he felt rather sleepy—indeed, he closed his eyes for a
moment—only for a moment, however, for just as he was pinching himself to
keep awake, he saw a big old man kangaroo standing erect, looking at him,
not many feet away. Stealthily Tom took his Magic Gun from the ground,
raised himself and prepared to fire. With a bound the kangaroo was off,
Tom following at a hot pace.

“Sure luck with the Magic Gun,” said Tom to himself, for though the
kangaroo went like the wind, Tom kept up with it. On and on they went,
for miles and miles it seemed to Tom, until at last the kangaroo seemed
to be winded, for he suddenly stopped and backed up against a tree facing
Tom. With a shaky hand Tom put in six nails, raised the gun to his
shoulder and fired.

Bang went the gun; the air was so full of smoke that for some minutes
nothing could be seen for it, but as it cleared away Tom shouted for joy,
for the old man kangaroo was nailed to the tree as securely as if he had
been held by several pairs of hands, while the nails were driven in.

“Gour-gour-gah-gah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah!”

A shout of laughter came from the tree-top. Tom, looking up, saw an old
kookooburra (or laughing jackass) with head bent back, laughing and
chuckling; soon he was joined by two young birds. The old one flew down,
looked first at the dead kangaroo, then at Tom, after which he flew back
to the branch on which he had been sitting and indulged in another burst
of laughter; in this he was joined by the two young birds.

It seemed to Tom to be a personal insult. They must be laughing at him,
because he knew no better than to shoot a kangaroo. He remembered now,
the kangaroo was always hunted with dogs, never shot.

“Cheeky things,” said Tom, “I’ll teach them a lesson. They know I dare
not shoot a kookooburra, so they think they can laugh at me as much as
they like. I know what I’ll do, with this Magic Gun I can split the
branch on which they are standing, then they won’t laugh so loud and
long. One nail will be enough to do it.”

No sooner thought of than it was done. Bang went the gun once more, and
before those rude kookooburras could fly away, the branch had opened, in
slipped their little toes, and there they were caught nicely in a trap.

“Gour-gour-gah-gah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah!” laughed the three trapped birds,
but this time they were laughing at their own silliness in being caught
so easily.

“They shall just stay there until I have been down the river and back
again; but to go down the river I must have something to sail or row in.
King Barak said that a knife was the thing to use instead of powder for
that work. Now for making a canoe with the Magic Gun,” said Tom, at the
same time placing an open penknife in the gun. Once more he raised it
to his shoulder, but this time he fired at a great gum tree. The knife
shot forth, struck the tree, and, as if guided by an invisible hand,
cut the bark to the exact size and shape of a canoe. Tom gave a strong
tug and pulled the bark clean away from the tree. There it lay, a very
strong canoe, and in a short time Tom had dragged it across to the river,
launched it, sprang in, and using the gun as a paddle, sailed gaily down
the river.

It was so jolly! Of course it would have been better fun if some one had
been with him, but then, none of the others really believed in the power
of the Magic Gun, and King Barak said that if an unbeliever were present
when he tried to use it, nothing could come of it.

Down the river went the canoe, nearing the dreadful place where the
undercurrents met, the undercurrents which no one would face, not even
the blacks, except in a magic canoe. Tom could now see the bridge which
was just the other side of the dreaded part, where anything that was
thrown in got sucked down. As he looked his blood froze in his veins, and
his heart seemed to stop beating with fear of what he saw. From under
the bridge came an awful shapeless mass, the only distinct part about it
being a head with glaring eyes and big horns.

“The Bunyip,” wailed Tom, trying now to paddle to the shore and so escape
the horrid thing coming towards him. Suddenly, a happy thought struck
him. Why, of course, the Magic Gun could kill even a “Bunyip.”

With trembling hands he placed his knife in the muzzle of the gun, fired,
and saw the knife describe a circle over the Bunyip’s head and fall into
the water. Hurriedly he took some nails from his pocket and charged the
gun with them, fired, and was horrified to see that when the nails struck
the Bunyip, fire and smoke came from every hole made by them. Nearer and
nearer came the horrid flame-belching creature until it touched the boat,
and at the same instant Tom sprang overboard, swam to the shore, and
fled, followed by the awful Bunyip.

Faster and faster went Tom, until at last he dropped to the ground
because his legs refused to carry him any further. Then he felt the
creature catch hold of him, and he sprang up wildly to fight it. But
instead of the awful Bunyip, he saw his father, who gazed at his small
son in surprise, and wanted to know why he had gone off alone so early in
the morning, why he had borrowed Barak’s silly old gun, and what he meant
by sleeping in the sun at that time of day.

Tom denied that he had been asleep. He looked at the Magic Gun. It was
certainly rusty, as if it had been in the water, and he determined to get
his father to go with him up the banks of the Yarra until they should
come to the tree where he knew they would find the kangaroo skin nailed
with the nails from the Magic Gun, and the three kookooburras caught in
the split branch of the same tree; then he would be compelled to believe
in its power.

[Illustration]




THE UNDERGROUND LAKE

[Illustration: “EATING THE BERRIES.”]

[Illustration: THE UNDERGROUND LAKE.]


Tom Jones went to stay with his uncle at Mount Gambier during the
Christmas holidays, and, as he said when he wrote to his father, “he was
enjoying every minute of his visit to the land of lakes.”

The people who lived in and around the Mount were arguing about the Blue
Lake. Was it really part of a great underground river, or was it just
the crater of a worn-out volcano that had got filled up with water? They
had argued about this for years, and Tom liked to listen to both sides,
although he knew that all the arguing that would ever be done could never
make him believe anything but the underground river belief.

There was the beautiful blue water, shut in by high banks which made it
look like a big basin, half full of blue water. The water was always
fresh and sweet, no bottom could be found in the middle of the Lake,
there was always a strong current too, oh, of course it was one of the
wonderful underground rivers!

One day Tom went down to see the man in charge of the pumping station,
with whom he was a great chum. They had been friends ever since Tom, soon
after he came to the Mount, had helped to clean the boat that was wanted
in a hurry to take a visitor across the Lake. There was only one boat
kept, and it had to be as clean as man could make it before it could go
on the Blue Lake, as the people of the town used the water for drinking.

Tom went very often to the Blue Lake. He meant to be an explorer when
he grew up, and he was trying to fit himself for that work because
he believed that whatever you meant to be as a man you should train
yourself for while still a boy. On this special day (a day Tom never
forgot because of what happened later through something he heard then at
the pumping station) he had been exploring the country as usual, and on
his way home called in to see his friend, the man-in-charge. There were
several men talking to his friend, and just as Tom drew near them he
heard an old man say—

“Well, I tell you what I _know_, not what I’ve heard; the Blue Lake is an
underground river, and when you hear my reason for saying that, you’ll
agree with me. Let me see, it was about twenty years ago, when, instead
of being a grey-headed old fellow as I am now, I was a black-headed young
fellow, and I had the best pair of grey horses in this district. I didn’t
believe in the underground river theory then, because I didn’t know then
what I did a little while after. One day I was driving my pair of greys
along the edge of the Blue Lake, when one of them slipped down the bank,
fell into the water and sank. I soon got some men to help me drag the
Lake, but no horse could we find; so I sadly set off for home with my one
grey horse. I hadn’t got very far along the road towards McDonald’s Bay
when a friend of mine met me, leading my lost grey horse. ‘This is yours,
is it not?’ said my friend. It was mine, I knew it by the brand on him.
Now, where do you think my friend found him? Why, in the water, on the
other side of the hill that separates the Blue Lake from McDonald Bay.
So I knew that if my horse got underground in that way from Blue Lake to
McDonald Bay, there must be a river flowing under there.”

When the old man finished telling his story, he went away chuckling to
himself, and every one laughed at his joke, every one, that is, but Tom,
who went towards his uncle’s house slowly, thinking, thinking, thinking
about the underground river.

When Tom reached home tea had long been over, and to explain why he was
so late he told them the story of the grey horse as it had been told by
the old grey-headed man. Tom’s uncle said he also thought the Blue Lake
was part of an underground river, and Tom then determined to explore and
find the hidden openings where the river entered and went out of the big
basin.

Next morning Tom set to work at once to explore the Blue Lake. First he
made a map of that part of the country. Then he drew a straight line from
McDonald Bay to the Lake, then marked it straight across to the opposite
end of the Lake. This done, he made a sounding line of a long rope with
heavy lead tied at the end, and leaning over the edge of the bank he
tried banging his line against the place where he hoped the opening might
be. Many times he struck with his leaded line, but each time it hit
against the bank. Tom sighed sadly, thinking that if only he lived in
England instead of in Australia, there would come a little fairy, most
likely the Queen of the Fairies herself, and she would take him down
into the water and show him the hidden openings and other wonders. But
Australia was a new country, and very few people here believed there
were fairies anywhere.

Just as Tom had sadly given up all hope of fairy aid, he felt the line
pulled gently, oh so gently at first, then harder and harder, until at
last he could scarcely hold it in his hands.

“I won’t give up,” thought Tom, “the worst that can happen if I fall in
is a wetting. I can easily swim out.”

He held on and was gradually drawn down beneath the water; deeper and
deeper he went, until at last he was jerked on one side, and found
himself on the bank of a fiercely rushing torrent.

Tom’s first thought was one of triumph. “I knew it was an underground
river,” he cried aloud. He jumped around as if a pistol shot had been
fired, when a voice near by said, “The least you might do is to thank me
for bringing you here.” There stood a tiny gnome dressed all in green.
“I pulled the leaded line that you threw down into the water, and I must
say that for a boy who has the sense to try and find the opening of the
river, you know very little about your country. Australia a new country
indeed? It was thousands of years old before Britain was in existence.
Oh, I know what I’m talking about, for I have lived underground for a
good many hundred years.”

Tom was so thoroughly surprised that he stood quite still, and stared at
the little gnome, who continued: “No fairies either? Oh indeed, I could
tell a different story. No one to help the poor little Australians? The
helpers are here right enough, but most little Australians not only don’t
want the help of the gnomes and fairies, but don’t believe there are such
beings anywhere. Why, even the one I have just helped has not a word of
thanks for what I have done for him.”

“Oh, I do thank you, how much I can’t say; I wanted to prove that the
Blue Lake is a river, yes, I wanted to prove that more than anything else
in the world, and I am so glad you have let me come to see it. Please may
I explore some more of the river?”

Not only did the kind gnome allow Tom to see the wonders underground,
but he offered to act as guide. As soon as Tom had eaten a bunch of wild
cherries that the gnome gave him, he was not only dry and comfortable,
but had become as small as the gnome, and could understand the talk of
bird, beast and fish.

Tom was surprised at the great change, and told the gnome he had often
enough eaten wild cherries before, and nothing strange had taken place;
but the gnome explained that only cherries picked by a gnome, and by him
given to a human being, had the power to so change the one who ate them.

“Now,” said the gnome, “you shall see the source of this underground
river. It would take rather long to get there by walking, so we shall go
on my airship.”

He gave a strange cry, and at once was answered by a bird which was
something like an albatross. It flew down by the gnome.

“Come,” said the little fellow, at the same time jumping on the back of
the big bird. Tom took his place next to his guide, and at the gnome’s
bidding the bird rose and flew upstream. It was a delightful sensation of
rushing, swooping, then rising again, making Tom just a little frightened
at first; but the bird had such a broad back, with such a comfortable
hollow place for Tom to nestle into, that he soon enjoyed his sail
through the air.

“Don’t bother to look at the places we pass, just get used to this way
of travel, and on our return journey I shall point out the things of
interest.”

Tom obeyed, for he did not care to look down from his lofty perch; and by
the time they reached the source of the river he had become quite used
to the rapid rush and could look about fearlessly. Now the river came
bubbling out of the hills far away in the north of a South Australian
spring which flowed along for a few miles and then seemed to trickle back
into the earth; but instead of doing that it trickled down into a cave, a
big wonderful cave, lighted up by thousands of strange white glistening
things, some hanging from the roof, others standing upright on the floor.

“Oh,” cried Tom, clapping his hands joyously, “it’s the fairies’ palace,
I know.” The gnome told him it was only one of many, for Australia was
just honeycombed with them. A few had been found by the human beings, for
instance, the Narracoorte Caves and the Buchan Caves, both of which were
really far too near the surface of the earth for safety, that is, for the
safety of the fairies.

“There are no human beings living near this cave for miles and miles,”
said Tom’s guide; “indeed, we feel sure some of our caves will never be
found, and this is one of them.”

“Why are no fairies here now?” began Tom; but his question ended in a
shriek, for first he felt some invisible hands pull his hair on one side,
then on the other, while some one else tickled his sides and tweaked his
ears and nose. All done so gently, that, after the first shriek, Tom felt
ashamed of his fear, especially as he saw the gnome grinning at him in
a friendly way. Tom entered into the joke too. “I know who you are, you
need not hide; please, oh please let me see you.”

“Shut your eyes,” said a sweet voice.

Tom obeyed. He felt something pass swiftly near his face, but he remained
quite still with eyes closed. “Open,” cried the same voice. He had not
to be told twice, and the sight that met his eyes kept him as still and
silent as when he had been surprised at seeing the gnome. The place
seemed to be just full of fairies, all dressed in green and gold, some
sitting on the beautiful standing crystal, others floating in the air,
others peeping from behind the hanging crystals, while in front of Tom
stood the Queen surrounded by her fairies in waiting. He knew she was the
Queen by the crown on her head, and the sceptre in her hand.

“Do homage,” whispered the gnome; so down on one knee went Tom and kissed
the tiny hand held out by Her Majesty.

“Oh, you are beautiful, beautiful,” said Tom. “You are as beautiful as
the golden wattle blossom on the green trees.” What a laugh rang through
the crystal cave! A laugh like the tinkling of hundreds of tiny golden
bells.

“Little boy, if you had the magic sight with which to look at the wattle
trees, you would see that often when people think they are looking at
wattle blossom they are really looking at the Fairies of the Sunny South.”

“Why does the wattle blossom die so soon?” said the Queen.

“Indeed,” said Tom, “I have often wondered why it lasts so short a time
when once it is picked.”

“Because the fairies, who play amongst it, fly away from every branch the
humans break off from the trees.”

“I shan’t pick any more,” said Tom; “but, oh, I do hope I shall have the
magic sight and be able to see you among the blossom next wattle time.”

“Unless we give you the power, you will not be able to see us. We were
here when you came into the cave, and we meant to let you see us because
we know about the Magic Gun. We know too that you believe in and love
fairies.”

“Now you shall join in a game with my subjects. After that we must say
good-bye, for I and my fairies have much work to do.”

Tom enjoyed the fairy game very much. The fairy by a wave of her sceptre,
gave him the power to float through the air, and the game was one of
hide and seek among the crystals. All too soon for Tom, the fairies, in
obedience to a word from Her Majesty, ceased their play, and stood before
her. She gave her commands, they said good-bye to Tom, and, in a moment
he and the gnome were alone once more.

“Don’t look so sad,” said the gnome, “for I have good news for you. Just
listen to this. The fairy Queen was so pleased with you to-day, that
she has consented to a plan of mine for you to see just where the water
enters and leaves the place known as the Blue Lake. When we get down to
the place where I pulled you into the water, I have permission to turn
you into a fish. You may stay in the Blue Lake for a whole day, and, as
soon as you swim through the place where the river flows into the sea,
you will turn into a boy again, and just swim to land.”

Tom thanked the gnome, you may be sure, and was eager to be off at once.
So getting on to the big bird’s back again, they flew quickly away on
the return journey. This time Tom had no fear. He looked down at the
water below, and at the banks of the river without the least tremble; but
he could not properly enjoy the wonderful things he saw because he was
thinking all the time of the treat in store for him.

Arrived at the entrance to the lake, Tom was given to eat nothing
more than a blade of grass picked from the bank of the river. He felt
a shudder pass through him, and it seemed as if the water called and
beckoned to him—he could not keep back.

“Good-bye, kind little gnome, I must jump into the water. Thank you!
Thank you! Thank you!”

He found himself floating through the water murmuring “Thank you, thank
you,” but already he was some distance across the Lake. What fun it was
floating about without the least effort! He swam across to the landing
stage where the caretaker keeps the very boat Tom helped, one day, to
clean. He poked his nose out to look at things.

“A fish! a fish! I’m positive I saw a fish,” exclaimed a man who was
standing on the steps talking to the caretaker.

“I’m positive you did not see a fish, sir,” answered the other. “I have
lived here long enough, and at first I fished often enough, but I never
saw a fish or felt a bite; nothing lives in this water.”

Tom poked up his nose again, this time to see who was talking to the
man-in-charge, for the voice of the man seemed familiar to him. The man
was his uncle. It was such a surprise to see his uncle there, that Tom
gave a jump in the water. Both men were looking at the spot, and this
time it was the man-in-charge who cried, “A fish! a fish! I’m positive
I saw a fish.” Then he darted away to a place from which he drew forth
a rod, baited it, jumped into his boat, and with Tom’s uncle rowed to a
spot where Tom had been just a few minutes before.

“Now for some fun,” thought Tom. “I’ll nibble the line some distance
above the hook, and they will get wild after a time.” And they did get
wild when time after time the line was dragged down, and yet the bait was
never touched. Tom at last grew quite careless, he nibbled nearer and
nearer the hook, and at last was caught. How it happened he did not know,
but he was firmly hooked; it hurt his lip when he tried to back away, so
he at last allowed the man to pull him up into the boat. “If there is one
fish there must be more,” cried his uncle; “unhook him and bait again.”

It hurt Tom worse still when the hook was dragged out of his lip, but
what his uncle said hurt the worst: it was, “I’ll put the poor thing out
of its misery, give me your pocket knife.” He held Tom, the fish, in his
left hand, took the knife, and was just going to stab when Tom cried out
in agony, “Uncle, uncle, don’t you know me.”

Both men stopped what they were doing to look at the fish! “It spoke,”
said Tom’s uncle. In his surprise he did not hold the poor fish so
tightly. Tom gave a flap, a jump, and as he reached the water, he cried
aloud, “Hurrah! hurrah!”

“No more fishing here for me,” said Tom’s uncle. “Nor for me,” said the
man-in-charge, and they rowed quickly to land.

Tom lost no time in getting away, right away, from the place where he had
so nearly met his death.

“I won’t be inquisitive again as long as I’m a fish,” he said, and swam
straight for the place he had marked as the part where the river ran out
from the Lake to join the sea. Ugh! as he floated through the big opening
into the underground river, he seemed to be able to feel the darkness,
because it was so black, but after a little while his eyes got used to
it, and presently he saw on either side of the river many beautiful
crystals which glowed softly. He knew he was now passing through another
cave, and he wondered if any fairies were watching him. Then the river
wound round again, and, lo! there was still another cave shining brightly
on all sides, for its wall roof and floor were almost covered with fungi.

[Illustration: “THE FISH GAVE A FLAP, A JUMP, AND REACHED THE WATER.”]

“Some of us are here,” cried a sweet voice, “and you shall have just a
glimpse of us at our work.” At the same instant he saw fairies in all
directions, all hard at work, making the fungi grow brighter and brighter.

“Tell me what you are doing,” said Tom. “How do you make it all glow like
that?”

“The fairies’ secret, little man. Good-bye! Good-bye.”

“Good-bye,” answered Tom. “Thank you for the glimpse.”

He had scarcely finished speaking when he felt himself being borne along
at an awful pace; the water was rushing to meet the sea. They met, and
Tom felt himself hurled down ever so far below the surface of the water,
then tossed up again. He had gone down as a fish, but he came up as a
boy, and his wet clothes kept him from swimming very easily. Just as he
thought he would not have strength to swim much further, he heard a voice
say—“There is a boy sinking, pull over and take him in the boat.”

In a few minutes he was safe among a boatload of picnickers who had
driven from the Mount to Dingley Dell, the beautiful place where Adam
Lindsay Gordon lived for many years.

“Why, it is young Tom Jones,” cried one of the rowers. “Did you walk all
the way here from your uncle’s place in the Mount? It is a good nineteen
miles.”

“No,” answered truthful Tom. “I swam from the Blue Lake.”

But no one would listen to his tale of adventures. They hurried him to
“Adam Lindsay Gordon’s” Cottage, wrapped him in shawls, and soon drove
away with him to a doctor, because, they said, he was raving. In vain
Tom pointed to a nasty jagged cut in his lip, and told them he had been
a fish for a time. They would not listen, and even to this day, if he
begins to tell his wondrous adventures, they smile so broadly that Tom
gives up the attempt to make them know the truth about the river theory.

Tom knows what he knows, however, and he is certain he has not seen the
last of the fairies, but that in the wattle blossom season they will
allow him to see them among the golden blossoms on the river banks.

[Illustration]




THE ORIGIN OF THE YARRA YARRA

(Ever-flowing)

[Illustration: “BARAK SNATCHED THE HONEYCOMB AWAY, AND PUT IT IN HIS
MOUTH.”]

[Illustration: The Origin of the Yarra Yarra (Ever-flowing)]


Long years ago, before the white men came to the Sunny South, there lived
a little black boy with his mother and father near the happy hunting
grounds among the Baw Baw Mountains. Barak was the little boy’s name.

Barak was all _very much_ of everything about him. He was _very_ fat
and shiny, his eyes were _very_ black, his hair _very_ frizzy, his nose
_very_ flat, and his lips _very_ thick, his laugh _very_ jolly, and his
heart _very_ kind.

One day his mother said to him, “Barak, your mother is sad; honey is the
only medicine that will make her happy. Go, find the wild honey and bring
some in the honeycomb.”

Barak being very kind, went to look for honey for his mother. A long,
long way he went before he found a honey tree, and when he found one he
sat down under it and cried, for a big, big bear was licking his paws
after having eaten all the honey.

“Boo hoo! Boo hoo!” cried Barak. “Mother is sad because she has no honey,
and you have eaten it all up.”

“Good little fat boy,” said the bear, “there is another honey tree behind
this one. I am very thirsty, and the water is a long way from here; bring
me some water, and I will climb the tree and give you honey.”

Barak dried his tears and smiled.

“Good, big bear, bring me the honey first, then I will get the water for
you.”

Now the bear was very thirsty indeed after having eaten so much sweet
honey, and the sun was shining so fiercely that he really felt too hot
and tired to walk to the water, while he could easily climb the honey
tree. Barak stood under the tree, watching the bear, who quickly brought
down a small piece of honeycomb.

“Give it to me to take to my mother,” said Barak.

“When I have drunk the water, you may have the honeycomb,” said the bear,
watching the golden honey drop slowly from the comb. But even while he
was speaking, Barak snatched the honeycomb away, and when the bear tried
to get it back again, the little boy put it in his mouth, and the honey
dropped down his throat.

“Where is the water you promised me?” growled the bear.

“I promised to get you some water if you gave me some honey, but you
would not give me the honey.”

“You have eaten the honey,” cried the big bear.

“But you did not give it me, big bear; I took it.”

Then the big bear took up stones to kill the fat little black boy, who
ran quickly behind a tree, and there was such a chasing around and around
that tree that at last Barak got so tired he thought he must fall to the
ground, but he kept on running, and he cried aloud to the Great Spirit to
help him.

Now the Great Spirit knew that Barak had wanted the honey for his mother,
and that he had only eaten it so that the big bear should not get it
again. So when he heard the little boy cry to him for help when the big
bear’s breath was hot on him as he ran, the kind Great Spirit was sorry
for the little boy who had only been foolish.

“I will send a Shining One to help him,” he said.

How glad Barak was when a Shining One suddenly caught him up in his arms
and ran away with him. It was a hot, hot day; but Barak could hear,
first, the gurgle of a stream, then the sound of deep running water, and
as he peeped over the shoulder of the Shining One to see if the bear were
very near, he saw a strange sight, for as the Shining One ran, he dragged
his right foot along the ground, and the earth opened and water flowed in
the opening.

In and out among the trees, often doubling back, then on again, ran the
Shining One, with the bear following fast. All day long they went, until
the sun went down like a ball of fire and the moon rose looking very much
like the fiery sun, showing that the next day would be another scorcher.

In the moonlight the big bear looked very terrible.

“He is coming nearer!” cried Barak. “Oh, don’t let him catch me!”

“Don’t be afraid,” said the Shining One, in a quiet voice that made Barak
feel happy even in his fear. “Tell me what you can see following the
bear?”

“Yarra Yarra it is,” said the boy joyfully; “a deep swift river flows in
the track you make with your foot as you pass along.”

“And look in front of you now, what do you see there?”

“The sea, the beautiful sea,” said Barak.

“We will go on the sea to the Great Spirit who sent me when you called to
Him for help; but the bear, who only thinks of revenge, will be caught
between the river and the deep blue sea.”

And so it happened.

Barak was taken in the Shining One’s arms right up to the Great Spirit
who had heard and answered his cry for help, and the bear, who only
wanted revenge, was drowned.

Barak’s mother waited long for the honey. When she found no dear little
black son coming back to her, she followed his tracks until she came to
the tree from which the chase had begun. There she found marks of her
dear boy’s feet, and knew he had been chased by a big, big bear. There,
too, she found, where all had been dry and hard, a hole in the earth, as
if some one had thrust in their foot with great force, and from this hole
flowed water.

[Illustration: “FINDING THE FOOTPRINT OF THE ‘SHINING ONE.’”]

Barak’s mother followed the flowing water for many days, for she could
not go fast like the Shining One. At last she came to the place where the
water flowed into the sea, and there, on the seashore, was the big bear
quite dead and harmless. Far away over the seas was a bright, beautiful
light, and even as the lonely mother stood looking at it, the bright
clouds parted, there came forth the Shining One, and as he left the
golden glory Barak’s face shone out. He beckoned with his hand, and his
mother heard him say, “Come with the Shining One, mother; I am waiting
for you here.”

[Illustration]




FORGET-ME-NOT

[Illustration: “THE MAN IN THE MOON.”]

[Illustration: For-get-me-not.]


“Marie, Marie, go and make those boys cease their quarrelling.” It was
the old housekeeper who ruled over “Sunny Farm” whose voice could be
heard calling to Marie, her daughter, and the boys who were quarrelling
were the seven sons of King Olaf, who, wishing them to be strong sturdy
fellows, had sent them to live at a farm in the country, for they had
all been ill, and the sweet fresh air and pure milk and the outdoor life
would do more to make them strong and healthy than all the medicine in
the world. So said the Court physician (who perhaps was tired of having
to doctor such troublesome patients).

At first they enjoyed the free country life, but after a short time they
tired of it, and longed for the excitement of town and the palace. At
least, six out of the seven princes were tired of it, but the seventh,
Prince Charlie, wished he might stay there always. His days were always
full and happy, for, unless his brothers insisted upon his joining in
their rough games, he followed the farmer at the animals’ feeding time,
watched the chaff-cutting, and the hundred and one interesting things
at the farm, and when he was tired would go indoors and sit in the big
cool kitchen, where he was sure to find Marie, gentle, blue-eyed Marie,
busily sewing, or, perchance, reading a book. Marie always greeted his
entrance with a smile, and willingly read to him, or told him a story
while she plied her needle. To-day, however, the princes had insisted
that Charlie must join in their game, which consisted of each throwing up
a golden ball at the same time to see which could throw his the highest.
They all threw their balls at the same time, so, of course, it was quite
impossible to say whose went highest, and a great noise and squabbling
ensued. Such a noise that it disturbed the farmer’s wife in the kitchen,
so she sent her little daughter Marie to make peace amongst them.

Out ran Marie to do her mother’s bidding, but at the door she saw an old
bent man with a bundle of sticks on his back, and a wallet at his side.
He was listening to the great hubbub coming from the field where the
princes were quarrelling.

“Hey day! where away so fast?” he asked, as Marie was running past him
after having made him a deep curtsey.

“Mother sent me to stop that dreadful noise, but I know it will be hard
work. They are growing more and more disagreeable every day.”

She ran on, and, when she reached the princes, they were actually
fighting with their fists. The only one who would listen to her pleading
was Prince Charlie, who readily left his brothers and went with her back
to the house.

When they entered the kitchen, the old bent man was enjoying a cup of
tea. He looked up and asked how Marie had managed the quarrel, as the
noise seemed as great as ever.

“They would not stop, at least, I mean that six of them would not. Of
course Prince Charlie came away. He does not care for fights.”

“Ah, I’ll remember that,” said the Old Man, and that night, when the
princes were in bed and asleep, the Old Man (who was no less a personage
than the Old Man in the Moon, who had come to the earth for various
reasons) went to the bedroom where lay the seven brothers, opened the
golden ball of each (with the exception of Prince Charlie’s), then,
holding each of the six in turn by the hair with his magic tweezers, he
kept them suspended in the air until their size had become so small that
they could easily be put in their golden balls, popped them in, closed
the balls, and placed the six of them in his wallet.

All this had been done without a word being said to the farmer or his
wife. The Old Man came back to the room, and sat down again by the fire,
remarking that he would go to bed now, as the moon would be level with
the earth at four o’clock, and he must be there punctually to step in
and do his work. They had all risen to go to their rooms, when great
thundering knocks resounded on the door, and a voice cried—

“Open in the King’s name!”

The farmer hastily unlocked the door, and there entered Prince Claude,
the cousin of the seven princes. He was followed by several soldiers.

“Where is the King?” he demanded.

“In the palace, I suppose,” answered the farmer.

“The King is here,” said the Prince; “do you not know that the late King,
the father of the seven princes, died yesterday, and I have come to take
his eldest son back to the palace to be King in his father’s place?”

The farmer started to go to the room where the seven princes had slept,
but he was stopped by the Old Man of the Moon.

“You need not go,” said the Old Man, “it is too late. This evening, after
they had gone to bed, I did what your wife has so often asked me to do.”

“What was that?” they cried out together.

“Why, I took means to stop their quarrelling.”

Then he told them how he had done it, showed them the tweezers with which
he had worked the magic, showed them also the six golden balls containing
the six princes.

“There are only six,” said the farmer’s wife.

“Ah, yes, Prince Charlie ceased quarrelling when told to do so, therefore
he is still sleeping in bed.”

“He, then, must be King in his father’s place,” said Prince Claude, but
he did not mean what he said, for he had quickly formed the wicked plan
of doing to Prince Charlie what the Old Man had done to the other princes.

When every one was in bed, and the house quite still and silent, Prince
Claude went to the room where the Old Man slept, quietly took the magic
tweezers and the wallet, and in a very few minutes had secured poor
Prince Charlie in his own golden ball, and placed it with the other six
in the wallet which he then placed by the Old Man’s side again.

At six o’clock, when the farmer roused the household, it was discovered
that not only had the Old Man gone, but Prince Charlie had disappeared.
Prince Claude pretended he knew nothing about it, and soon gladly set
off for the palace, for he was the one who must now be King. Poor little
Marie went about her work very sadly, taking long walks when she had time
to do so, and asking every one she met if they had seen any one answering
to the description of Prince Charlie.

Almost a year had gone by, when, one day, as she wandered about further
from home than usual, she heard some one moaning, and going towards the
spot from whence the sound came, she saw a man tied to a tree, his face
all swollen and looking full of agony.

“Water, water, for the love of heaven, a few drops of water!”

“Poor man,” said tender-hearted Marie, and she soon brought him some
water in her hat from the stream near by.

“You do not know me,” moaned the man, “but I know you, you are Marie of
‘Sunny Farm.’”

[Illustration: “MARIE FINDING THE MAN.”]

Of course Marie asked her usual question, and this time she got an
answer. The man told her that he was Prince Claude. This she could not
believe at first, for he was dressed in rags. He told her what he had
done to Prince Charlie, how he had also gone to the palace, and had been
crowned King, but that his conscience had troubled him so much that he
had done many wicked and foolish things to try and forget his sin. He
told her, too, how his subjects had rebelled against him, and had driven
him away from the palace, and that robbers had set upon him, robbed and
beaten him, taken away his good clothes, and put those rags upon him, and
had then tied him to a tree, where, all through the hot day, he had been
in sight of the water, and could not get a drop.

“You have been very wicked,” said Marie, “but at least you have told me
where to look for dear Prince Charlie. I cannot cut the leather which
binds you to the tree, so, before I set out to find Prince Charlie, I
shall run back to the farm, and get my father to come and set you free.”

The farmer came, but long before he arrived Prince Claude was dead, and
all that could be done for the wretched man was to bury him.

[Illustration: “MARIE GOING TO THE MOON.”]

Not another instant did Marie lose. At once she set off on her long
journey to the point where the moon touches the earth. For days and days
she walked, begging food at houses by the way, and at last she reached
the desired point; but, alas! when she saw the Old Man and asked him to
give her back Prince Charlie’s ball, he told her that the balls were not
in his keeping, and the only one to help her was the boatman who ferried
a boat across daily from the moon to the stars, for the seven balls had
been placed in the sky as seven stars. They waited until the queer boat
came alongside the moon, and the Old Man helped Marie into the boat.

When the boatman heard Marie’s story and her request, he at once steered
towards a point where shone seven stars in this fashion.

[Illustration]

The one in the centre shone brightly, but those around it were dim and
gave but little light. “That is Prince Charlie’s, I am sure,” said Marie,
“the one in the middle;” and when she looked closely at it, she found a
little mark that Prince Charlie had made upon it one day. How she thanked
the boatman! But the boatman smiled at her sadly, for he knew that any
one once touched by the magic tweezers and enclosed in the golden ball,
could never be brought to life again.

The boatman rowed her back to the moon, and the Old Man helped her out
gently and lovingly. “Kind little girl,” he said, “you can never see
bonnie Prince Charlie again in this world, but take the ball to the
earth, bury it in your garden, weep tears of loving sorrow over the tiny
grave, and you will be rewarded.”

Marie clasped the ball lovingly. When she reached the earth again, she
set off at once for home, hardly stopping to rest or eat by the way, for
she wished to see what would happen when she buried the golden ball.

“Oh, my dear! my dear!” cried her mother, when Marie returned, “how I
have missed you!”

“Little one, you must never go away again; we cannot spare you,” said her
father.

“I shall never leave you again, dear mother and father; for all I love is
here now.”

She buried the golden ball in her garden just under her bedroom window,
and indeed she _did_ water the little grave with the tears of love, as
the Old Man had told her to do, and the next time he came to visit the
farm, she led him to the little grave, and, lo, it was covered with a
pretty blue flower which had a tiny golden centre.

“Ah!” said the Old Man, “did I not tell you you would be rewarded?”

“The blue eyes and the golden hair of Prince Charlie will never be
forgotten now; they seem to say to me, ‘Forget-me-not, forget-me-not,’”
answered Marie.

And ever since that time the tiny flower has been called “Forget-me-not.”

[Illustration]




THE PALACE OF TRUTH

[Illustration: “THEY CAME IN SIGHT OF AN ENORMOUS TREE, UPON WHICH GREW
GOLDEN APPLES.”]

[Illustration: THE PALACE OF TRUTH.]


There was once a King who had three sons, three such haughty sons, indeed
they were as bad as it was possible for princes to be. Their mother had
died when the youngest was a baby, and every one had petted and spoilt
them until they had become unbearable. At last the Queen of the Fairies
decided that if they were to do any good in the world as Princes, she had
better have a hand in their education. Tutors they had had until at last
there was not to be found any one in the Kingdom who would undertake to
teach them. The present one had given notice that he meant to leave, but
the Fairy Queen stopped that.

Their last day (for some time) amongst mortals had come. Oh, it had been
a terrible day for every one in the Palace! It seemed as if the Princes
had gone mad, and they had ended up by breaking every piece of crockery
in every bedroom, little dreaming what hard work it would mean for them
in Fairyland.

Night came, the three Princes were in bed and fast asleep. Suddenly they
awoke, hearing their names distinctly called. Each Prince sat up in bed,
gazing, in something like fear, at a lovely little vision, the Queen of
the Fairies herself. They were only conscious of a beautiful face, above
a shimmer of gold, looking sadly at them. “Princes you are called, but,
unless the Fairies themselves help you, you will never be worthy of the
title. You must come with me to the ‘Palace of Truth,’” said the Queen.

“Only give us one more chance,” they all said together.

“You have had too many chances already; get up and put on your clothes.”

They obeyed in silence.

“Turn out your pockets.” They obediently pulled out string, knives, and
other things.

“Stand up in front of me and look at me.” The three Princes fixed their
eyes upon the Fairy’s face. She waved her golden wand gently to and fro,
and, as she waved it over them, they gradually grew smaller and smaller,
until at last they were as tiny as it is possible for human beings to
become.

“Now I shall call my carriage, and you may drive with me.” She called,
her voice sounding like the tinkle of a silver bell, and in answer
to her call, there came through the open window a carriage made of
mother-of-pearl and drawn by butterflies. The drive really was
delightful, and when they found themselves rapidly going over the Black
Forest, they looked at each other joyfully.

“We have never been allowed to go near the Black Forest,” said Prince
Thomas.

“No, that was the one thing we could not persuade any one to let us do,
because it is haunted by hobgoblins and devils,” said Prince Richard.

“You are going there, now,” replied the Fairy, and to their astonishment
the butterflies flew down to the ground in the very heart of the Forest.
The three Princes got out of the carriage at a sign from the Fairy Queen.
She then told them that their education in Fairyland had begun, and they
must walk through the Forest until they arrived at the Palace of Truth.

She gave them each a present. Prince Thomas received a tiny
walking-stick. Prince Richard two small round stones. Prince Henry a
small box. The Princes thought these were stupid presents, but were
afraid to say so; only they determined to throw them away as soon as they
were alone.

All too soon the Fairy Queen drove away in her carriage, and the boys
in fear took hold of hands, and tried to feel brave, but oh dear! how
frightened they were! As long as they kept to a narrow path, which
seemed to go on and on for miles, nothing happened, but if they wandered
ever such a little way from the path, they heard growls and horrid
noises, and saw creatures glaring at them. So they kept to the path and
walked forward until they felt so weary that they really had to rest; so
they sat down on the edge of the path, in the shade of a tree, and as
they sat there they heard a curious grind, grind, grinding noise as of
two stones grinding something between them.

Their curiosity at last made them go to try and discover what the noise
really was, but, when they attempted to go near the bush from behind
which the noise came, they were driven back by the silly little Stick
that the Fairy had given Prince Thomas. It looked such a funny little
thing as it went hoppity, hoppity, hop on its one leg that they could
do nothing but roll on the ground and laugh, and then the silly Stick
stood bolt upright with its crook turned towards them, and somehow it
looked exactly like their last teacher. You see, it really was their last
teacher turned into a stick by the Fairy, and given this work to do.
When the Princes discovered the likeness in the Stick to the tutor, they
laughed more than ever—indeed they laughed until they could laugh no more.

As they lay very still on the ground, tired with laughing, they heard
the grinding sound cease. Prince Thomas jumped up quickly, and ran to
look behind the bush. This time the Stick did not attempt to stop him.
There he found three plates of bread and milk, three cups of coffee, and
three slices of bread and butter. How the Princes enjoyed that meal,
prepared by the Two Stones who, of course, were the two cooks from the
Palace transformed by the Fairy. After breakfast, they went on their
journey again, not because they wished to go, for indeed they wanted to
lie still under the trees and be lazy, but the Stick drove them along,
and, if one of them dared to go away from the right path, the Stick just
whacked him until he went back to the path.

All day they went along that narrow path, only stopping for meals, and,
when evening came, they were really tired and gladly followed the Stick
to the shelter of a bush, where, to their surprise, they found three nice
soft blankets. It did not take them long to roll themselves up snugly,
and they were soon fast asleep. I know you have guessed that the blankets
came out of the wee box given by the Fairy to Prince Henry.

For days and days they marched through the Forest, never seeming to get
any nearer the end of it. Each day was just like that first one—The Stick
compelled them to keep to the road, their meals were prepared by the Two
Stones, and their blankets spread from the mysterious box.

At last one day they came in sight of an enormous tree, upon which grew
golden apples, and, for the first time during their journey in the
Forest, they saw people. But were they people? they looked like it,
except for their noses, which were dreadfully long. Noses of all lengths
they saw. There was one man whose nose wound round his legs and tripped
him up when he tried to walk. “Keep away, keep away,” shouted this man,
“take warning by me; if you eat of the fruit of this tree, if you even
take a bite, you cannot leave off.” Even while he spoke, he kept on
grabbing and eating. Fortunately for the Princes the Stick kept strict
watch, and would not even let them go on the side near the tree, and when
they were safely past, he hopped behind, to protect any of them running
back to the fascinating fruit trees.

But soon they forgot all about the tree at the sight which met their
eyes. Straight in front of them was a beautiful Palace, built of pure
glass, and the narrow path along which they had journeyed for so many
days led up to the very steps of the Palace. Hoppity, hoppity, hop went
the Stick, leading the way. Open flew the door to admit them, but it
closed with a bang when they were inside. Hoppity, hoppity, hop went the
Stick down the big hall to a room at the far end, and when the Princes
went into the room, the Stick hung itself upon a nail by the door, its
work for the day being finished.

The room, which was to be their dining-room, play-room, and bedroom
combined, for many days to come, was clean, but very plainly furnished
with three beds, three chairs, a table, and an enormous cupboard on the
top of which stood a big Noah’s Ark. The Princes tried to open the big
cupboard, but could not; then they thought they would get the Noah’s Ark
down and play with that, but it was so far out of their reach that even
a chair held on top of another chair standing on the table was not high
enough to get it down. The Princes gazed sadly at the coveted toy.

“I wish,” said Prince Thomas, after some time, “I wish it would _come_
down.” No sooner had he uttered the wish than the little men and animals
all came rushing pell-mell from their Ark, and were soon on the table.
“What fun,” cried the Prince, “to play with things that can come to you
of their own accord.”

[Illustration: “THE TOYS RUNNING AWAY.”]

For some time the strange new toy charmed the three Princes, but it
was impossible for such spoiled boys to play together for long without
a quarrel, and a big quarrel began between Henry and Richard for the
possession of the camels. They quarrelled so badly that fists began to be
used, and only stopped when Thomas called to them to look at the funny
playthings, for they were all running away. Off the table scampered
animals, as well as Noah and the other men, and before the Princes could
stop them, they had climbed up the cupboard, gone into their Ark and shut
the door. No amount of coaxing could bring them down this time, and as
the top of the cupboard was quite out of reach, the Princes decided to go
to bed.

A real bed was very comfortable after having lain on the ground in the
Forest for so many nights. They were so excited with the strange Palace
and the wonderful Noah’s Ark that they could not sleep, so they talked
for a long time—at least, Thomas and Henry talked, but Prince Richard
shut his eyes and tried to sleep. His brothers’ voices kept him awake,
and by degrees the bed which had seemed so comfortable grew harder and
harder; really he was growing more and more grumbly, although he did not
know it. He turned from side to side impatiently, then, alas! a grumble
slipped out: “Bother this bed, it is so hard that I——” The sentence was
never finished, for the bed shot up on its end and sent Richard sprawling
to the floor in the midst of the blankets. The worst of it was that the
bed refused to allow him to sleep in it that night. There it stood up on
end, and the united efforts of the three Princes could not bring it into
its usual position. The other Princes invited Richard into their beds,
but as soon as he attempted to get in, the bed began to rise upon end,
and he was tumbled out.

“No use,” said Richard, “I know it is my own fault; I grumbled, so I must
sleep on the floor to-night. The Fairies mean to punish me.”

After breakfast next morning the Princes intended to play with the
animals of the Noah’s Ark again, but no amount of wishing would bring
them down from their resting-place, for morning is the time for lessons,
not for toys.

While they were still standing in front of the cupboard, looking up at
the Ark and wishing their hardest, the Stick came in and drove them out
of the room, down the big hall, and into a small room. There he left
them, and, as the door banged behind him, they looked round the room in
curiosity. It seemed to be full of dead flies, butterflies, and other
insects, and while they were wondering why they should be brought into
what seemed to be a burying-place for dead insects, the Queen of the
Fairies appeared before them.

“Princes,” she said scornfully, “these poor dumb things which could not
protect themselves were tormented and killed by Princes, who are not
worthy even of the term boy, which stands for bravery—and Princes should
be the leaders of boys, the bravest of the brave.” She looked terrible in
her anger. The poor Princes dared not utter a word.

She went on, “You had your ‘fun,’ as you called it, now you have got to
pay for it, and this is the price. Every day from morning till night, you
must stay in this room, and work at these poor little insects. Every leg
and every wing must be put on its owner’s body in the right place. When
all are ready, I shall appear.”

The Fairy vanished, and the Princes, who had learned to obey during their
journey through the Forest, set to work. Weary work it was too, and the
worst of it was, that, if one of the Princes grumbled ever so little, the
insect upon which he was working fell to pieces, and the parts had to be
patiently searched for, and put together again.

At last, however, every insect was complete, and just as the Princes gave
a sigh of relief as they looked at their finished task, there stood the
Queen of the Fairies before them. No anger was in her face now, but a
sweet loving smile. She gently waved her wand over the dead insects, and,
lo, a buzzing and humming immediately began as they stirred, flew round
the room, and out of the window into the fresh air.

The Queen looked sadly at the Princes. “If you had been cruel only, your
work would now be done, your education finished, but, alas! there are two
more rooms through which you must go. The work will be hard, but if you
will remember that grumbling undoes the work you grumble about, your task
will be much easier than this sad one has been to you.”

She vanished as suddenly as she had appeared, and the faithful old Stick
came hoppity, hoppity, hop into the room, and, following it, they were
led into a big room full of broken crockery. They gave a start of dismay
as they saw how much there was. Could it be possible they had destroyed
so many things? “Look,” said Prince Thomas, pointing to six big tables,
“there are the bedroom sets we smashed up the day the Fairies took us
away. I do wish we had been wiser, then we would not have had to work so
hard now.” His brothers agreed, and although this was rather a selfish
motive for wishing to be good, still it was a big step in the right
direction, and the first real step they had taken towards going back to
their father’s Palace.

They set to work with a will, patiently putting the big pieces in order,
and then searching for the small bits to fit in. A long, long time it
took, and knowing that the least grumble might mean the whole of the
crockery falling to pieces, and the pieces all having to be put together
again, they tried so hard to be patient that not a single grumble escaped
one of them.

What joy when the whole of the things were mended! This time the Fairy
did not appear, but they were led by the Stick into another room full of
queer rolls of paper. What could they be? Looking closely at them, they
soon discovered. Alas! all the bad or disobedient or rude words they had
ever spoken were plainly to be seen. “Oh dear!” said Prince Richard, “can
it be possible that we were such bad, disobedient, rude boys? we should
have had more niceness than that.”

“Yes, indeed,” replied his brothers.

Ah, if they had but known it, that speech showed they were a good
distance on the road to “home.” As they spoke the Fairy appeared and told
them they must rub out the awful words, and then bury the rolls in the
garden. It was not very difficult work, only tedious, and the more they
rubbed, the sorrier they became for having said such words. When three
rolls were cleaned, they each shouldered one, and bore them through the
open French window, and down a long winding path, which led to a flower
garden quite out of sight of the room in which they had worked at the
rubbing. There were many mounds in this garden, and on each grew pretty
flowers.

The Princes set to work to dig a hole for each bundle. This was quite a
fresh kind of labour for them, and at first they thought it great fun
to use a pick and shovel, but, before long, each Prince felt his back
aching rather badly. The pain grew greater and greater until at last the
grumbling began. It did not go on very long, however, for the sight of
the three rolls, tumbling along the garden path, making straight for the
house, made them remember the Fairy’s caution about grumbling. At once
they ran after the rolls meaning to bring them back, but no matter how
fast they ran, the rolls kept some distance in front of them, and reached
the house first.

“Positively no more grumbling for me,” remarked Prince Richard.

“Nor for me.”

“Nor for me,” echoed his brothers.

When they had carried the rolls back once more, and had dug until their
backs ached, they wisely lay down on the ground and rested, then set to
work again, and soon finished the digging and buried the rolls.

When they brought the second lot of rolls to be buried, they were
delighted to see pretty roses growing out of the mounds where they had
buried their first burdens.

At last, after many weeks of patient work, the room was cleared of rolls,
and the Princes waited for the Fairy to appear, or for the Stick to come
and lead them to another room. Neither of these things happening, and
seeing the door of the room open (it had been closed while they worked at
the rubbing) they went out into the great hall. Every door on either side
of the hall was open, and boys of all sizes were hurrying along, either
coming out of the rooms, running along the hall, or going out of the big
door at the end, while an old man, bent nearly double, rang a big bell
and called loudly:

“Examination day is here, hurry to the Examination room, the Fairies are
waiting there.”

He kept on repeating this, as he walked up and down, and the Princes
quite meant to go to the Examination, but their attention was attracted
by a queer-looking boy whose arms flapped about as if he thought they
were wings, whose head was rather like a big bluebottlefly’s, and who
seemed to be trying to climb up the wall, at the same time making a
buzzing noise with his mouth.

“What are you doing?” asked one of the Princes.

“I’m (buzz) going to the (buzz, buzz) examination (buzz, buzz, buzz).”

“But why are you doing that sort of thing; do you think you are a fly?”

“(Buzz) I’m only (buzz, buzz, buzz) going to the door (buzz, buzz).”
He looked at his questioners in a surprised way. Prince Thomas began
to answer, but he never finished that answer, for the door closed with
a resounding bang. They ran to it and tried to open it, but it was too
firmly closed against them. It had opened for those ready for examination
to go through, and they had missed their chance. However, the old man
who had been calling every one to go to the Examination, did not mean to
miss his chance. It was the rule that those unfit for examination, who
remained in the hall after the big door closed, should be taken by the
old man, and given to the gnomes for slaves.

Imagine the Princes’ surprise when they found themselves picked up and
thrust into a great leather bag in company with the buzzing boy, and a
few other queer looking creatures who bore some resemblance to boys. The
old man carried them to the foot of a great mountain, rolled away a stone
which concealed a hole in the mountain, and calling out, “Only eight
this time, here they come,” emptied the bag into the opening. Down fell
the victims, and when they reached the bottom, the gnomes danced around
them in glee. The new-comers were quickly set to work, and kept at it
too, and it was a good thing the Princes had learned patience in the
Palace of Truth, or they would have grumbled and received the horrible
punishments they saw inflicted on the buzzing boy and the others who had
failed to learn patience during their trial time in Fairyland.

Of course the gnomes knew there must be some mistake as soon as they saw
the Princes. _They_ were not failures, but they kept them as slaves,
put chains on them, and made them work as hard as the others had to,
making gold for the earth. How much time the Princes spent in gnomeland
they never knew, but they always kept a sharp look out for any chance to
escape, and at last it came.

The gnomes were holding a great festival, as they always do once every
thousand years, and the right time for it came while the Princes were
with them. The slaves were set to work alone, but most of them went to
sleep when there were no gnomes’ goads to make them keep awake.

First the gnomes had great jumping trials, when they jumped over the
great fires, seeing, not who could jump highest, but who could bear to
jump nearest the fire. Then they drank quantities of a very fiery liquid
that made them first fight with each other, and then fall into a heavy
sleep. The Princes knew this sleep would last for many hours, so now was
the chance they had longed for, and must at once use. Quickly they filed
through the heavy chains which bound them, and ran off in what they hoped
was the right direction. On and on they ran, although soon tired with
their unaccustomed exercise; but success meant freedom from slavery, so,
though very tired, they persevered in their running.

At length they saw a point of light, and when they reached it, lo! it led
them out into a beautiful meadow filled with green grass and flowers.
They threw themselves at full length on the sweet smelling grass, so
delightful to touch and see and smell after their long imprisonment in
the gold-mine.

Presently Prince Thomas said, “There is a great thing like an umbrella
here, if you will help me, I shall climb to the top, see what there is
to be seen, and tell you, for we must soon decide in which direction to
journey on.”

The great thing was a big toadstool.

With his brothers’ help the Prince climbed to the top, but almost at
once he took a flying leap to the ground again, crying, “Hide, get under
this shelter, for there is a great monster coming this way.”

They crept under the toadstool, but to their horror, the monster stopped
quite close to them, and began to think aloud.

“Enemies encompass me on every side, my nephew has secretly been working
against me, telling lies, and stirring the people to rebellion.” Here he
sighed deeply. “If only my three sons were with me! but alas, the fairies
took them away many years ago, and they have never been heard of since.”

The Princes who had listened to all the old man (who seemed a monster
to them because of their tiny size) said, began to understand. This was
their father, the King. They peeped out at him. Yes, their dear father,
though now an old, old man with white hair. So their cousin, Prince
Claude, was a traitor.

A great longing filled the breast of each Prince. Oh, to be big enough
to fight for and take care of their dear father. No thought of self now.
Ah, that was just what their lessons in Fairyland had taught them. This
unselfish desire to help another was the one thing needed to restore
them to their proper size, and to their astonishment each saw, not only
himself, but the other two, grow and grow and grow until they were quite
as big as their father.

The King had flung himself on the ground, and lay still with his eyes
closed. Hearing a noise, he looked up and saw three strong-looking young
men standing before him.

“Treachery,” he cried, springing to his feet and drawing his sword,
“Prince Claude has sent you to follow and kill me.”

He would have struck at them, but they stood quite still, and, as they
uttered the one word “Father” his sword dropped from his hand.

It did not take long for them to tell him what had happened since their
disappearance with the Fairies, neither did it take long for him to
tell of the sad state of affairs in his Kingdom, brought about by their
cousin, who was trying to make the people rebel against their lawful King.

Great was the rejoicing in the City that night. A great supper was made,
bonfires were lighted, the bells were rung, and the King presented his
sons to the chief Ministers of State. Prince Thomas being the eldest
had, of course, to remain at home, and help the King to govern the
land. Prince Richard led the Army, and quickly put down all rebellion
in the Kingdom. Prince Henry took command of the Navy, and gained great
victories at sea.

The Kingdom, governed and guarded so wisely by the Fairy-taught Princes,
was known throughout the whole world as the Happy Kingdom.

[Illustration: Finis]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FAIRY TALES TOLD IN THE BUSH ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
